---
layout: post
title: StoRM 1.11.2 released
author: enrico
---

The StoRM Product Team is pleased to announce the release of StoRM 1.11.2 that includes the following updates:

* StoRM Backend v. [1.11.2]({{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/storm-backend-server/1.11.2/)
* StoRM Frontend v. [1.8.3]({{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/storm-frontend-server/1.8.3/)
* StoRM GridHTTPs Server v. [2.0.2]({{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/storm-gridhttps-server/2.0.2/)
* StoRM Native Libs v. [1.0.2]({{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/storm-native-libs/1.0.2/)
* YAIM StoRM v. [4.3.3]({{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/yaim-storm/4.3.3/)

Packages can be obtained from our repositories and will soon be available on
the EMI-3 repository. Follow the instructions in the 
[download section]({{ site.baseurl }}/download.html).

The StoRM 1.11.2 release provides several bug fixes as highlighted in the
[release notes][release-notes]. This release was initially foreseen for mid
July but was delayed as issues kept being discovered by the sites running
v.1.11.1 and, lately, the 1.11.2 preview versions.

We worked closely with the **INFN Tier-1** and **QMUL** sites, where a preview
of this release has been running reliably for weeks under high load and real
use cases. Whenever an issue was found we provided new packages with tentative
fixes to be tested in production. This fast turnaround has been possible
thanks to our continuos integration infrastructure, which let sites install
from a preview yum repo a few minutes after a change in the code is made. The
result of this continuos feedback is a release that, having already faced the
loads of production use, should be reasonably robust and stable. We want to
thank the people operating StoRM at **INFN-CNAF** and **QMUL** for the
precious collaboration and valuable feedback!

Let's go more in detail on the main problems fixed in this release.

In the **StoRM Backend**, the deployment in production of v 1.11.1 has shown
that in some cases there was an explosion of the number of threads created to
handle incoming requests. This was caused by the high number of SRM abort requests
on some transfers due to a malformed query on the database that increased considerably
the time it took to handle prepare-to-get and prepare-to-put requests.

We fixed an issue on the GPFS quota computation handler introduced in v.
1.11.1. In some cases, a deadlock between worker threads could be observed and
the update of the quota information would stop. This was caused by an improper
sharing of a bounded threadpool between the thread that submits the GPFS Quota
computation tasks and the workers that perform the quota computation.

The **StoRM Frontend** also received a pair of significant fixes, namely a fix
for a truncation error on the transferred file sizes that caused problems to
FTS and changes to the init scripts to properly change the local user for the
frontend process.

The **StoRM GridHTTPs Server** has not undergone significant changes, but only
some optimizations and some adjustments regarding configuration.

Finally, **YAIM StoRM** was updated to provide fixes (StoRM user configuration
didn't work, wrong values were published for Glue2) and remove old useless
functionality (the checksum configuration code).

In order to avoid regressions as much as we could, we are continuosly
enhancing our [testsuite][storm-testsuite] based on the [Robot
framework][robot-framework]. Each time a new issue is found or new
functionality is added, new tests are added to verify the correct behaviour of
the clients.

For all the release details, see the [release notes][release-notes].

<span class="label label-info">important</span> If you installed from our
development repository, when the EMI3 repository will be updated, or after you
installed our production repository, you must remove the developers' repo and
reinstall the involved components. We are working to change our development
packages versioning scheme so that this step will not be needed in the future.

<span class="label label-info">important</span> With StoRM 1.11.2 the StoRM
Backend logging configuration file `/etc/storm/backend-server/logging.xml` has
been modified. Given that such file is a config file, it will not be replaced
by the RPM if you changed it. In order to take advantage of the new
configuration please merge your local configuration manually with the .rpmnew
version created by the package update.

[release-notes]: {{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/StoRM-v1.11.2.html
[storm-testsuite]: https://github.com/italiangrid/storm-testsuite
[robot-framework]: https://code.google.com/p/robotframework/
[storm-many-threads]: https://ggus.eu/ws/ticket_info.php?ticket=95700

