---
layout: post
title: StoRM 1.11.2 released
author: enrico
---

The StoRM Product Team is pleased to announce the release of StoRM 1.11.2 that includes the following updates:

* StoRM Backend v. [1.11.2](/release-notes/storm-backend-server/1.11.2/)
* StoRM Frontend v. [1.8.3](/release-notes/storm-frontend-server/1.8.3/)
* StoRM GridHTTPs Server v. [2.0.2](/release-notes/storm-gridhttps-server/2.0.2/)
* StoRM Native Libs v. [1.0.2](/release-notes/storm-native-libs/1.0.2/)
* YAIM StoRM v. [4.3.3](/release-notes/yaim-storm/4.3.3/)

Packages can be obtained from our repositories and will soon be available on the EMI-3 repository. 
Follow the instructions in the [download section](/download.html).

The StoRM 1.11.2 release provides several bug fixes for 1.11.1 version, as highlighted in the [release notes][release-notes].
Working on this release took more time than we expected because when several issues were discovered on v.1.11.1 we decided to work hard to offer to all our users an application stable, bug-fixed and highly tested. 
We worked closely with the production sites of **INFN-CNAF** and **QMUL** where StoRM 1.11.2 is currently running as preview, with high loads and real use cases. 
This was particularly useful. 
We provided them our latest RPMs, in exchange for a lot of positive and negative feedbacks that we did immediately faced. 
So the StoRM Product Team is grateful to these production sites without which it would take more time to analyze and solve the several problems. 
Below we are going to summarize the main changes introduced by StoRM 1.11.2.

About the **StoRM Backend**, one of the first problems solved was the large amount of threads created by 1.11.1 version, as spotted by this incident. 
We discovered that this large amount of threads was generated by the high number of abort requests due to the operations latency caused by a malformed query on the database. 
Another important issue that we discovered and fixed was about the GPFS quota computation: the StoRM Backend could end up in a deadlock during this computation with the consequence that the quota information weren't updated correctly in the StoRM database. 
This issue was caused by an improper sharing of a bounded threadpool between the thread that submits the GPFS Quota computation tasks and the workers that perform the quota computation. 
Together with the StoRM Backend, the **StoRM Frontend** was updated with a pair of significant fixes about the returned fileSize of a prepare-to-get or prepare-to-put, that caused some failures at client side, such as with FTS. 
The **StoRM GridHTTPs Server** has not undergone significant changes, but only some optimizations and some adjustments regarding configuration. 
A pair of bugs were fixed for **StoRM Native Libs**. 
Finally, the updates to **YAIM StoRM** fixed some issues about StoRM configuration (StoRM user wasn't properly changeable, type of checksum should be no longer configurable, etc) and the GLUE2 information published.

In order to avoid regressions as much as we could, we are still working to enhance our [testsuite][storm-testsuite] based on the [Robot framework][robot-framework].
Each time a new issue is found or new functionality is added, new tests are added to verify the correct behaviour of the clients.

For all the release details, see the [release notes][release-notes].

<span class="label label-info">important</span> _If you have installed our developers' repository, when the EMI3 repository will be updated, or after you installed our production repository, you must remove the developers' repo and reinstall the involved components._

<span class="label label-info">important</span> _With StoRM 1.11.2 the StoRM Backend logging configuration file 'logging.xml' has been modified so you have to manually replace this file with the .rpmnew or merge your configuration._

[release-notes]: {{ site.baseurl }}/release-notes/StoRM-v1.11.2.html
[storm-testsuite]: https://github.com/italiangrid/storm-testsuite
[robot-framework]: https://code.google.com/p/robotframework/
[storm-many-threads]: https://ggus.eu/ws/ticket_info.php?ticket=95700

